# Widgets

1. [Menstrual cycle phase view](widgets.md#menstrual-cycle-phase-view)
2. Monthly calender view
3. Weekly calender view



## Menstrual cycle phase view

```dart
import 'package:menstrual_cycle_widget/menstrual_cycle_widget.dart';

class MenstrualCyclePage extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
      appBar: AppBar(
        title: Text('Menstrual Cycle Tracker'),
      ),
      body: MenstrualCyclePhaseView(
        size: 300,
        theme: MenstrualCycleTheme.arcs,
        phaseTextBoundaries: PhaseTextBoundaries.outside,
        isRemoveBackgroundPhaseColor: true,
        viewType: MenstrualCycleViewType.text,
        isAutoSetData: true,
      ),
    );
  }
}
```



<table data-full-width="false"><thead><tr><th width="194">Parameters</th><th width="108">Datatype</th><th width="286">Description</th><th>Default Value</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>size</code></td><td>int</td><td><strong>Required</strong>. Specifies the overall size of the <strong>MenstrualCyclePhaseView</strong> widget.</td><td>required*</td></tr><tr><td><code>isAutoSetData</code></td><td>bool</td><td>Sets true to get data automatically from calender view.</td><td>false</td></tr><tr><td><code>totalCycleDays</code></td><td>int</td><td>Specifies the total number of cycle days in the menstrual cycle</td><td>28</td></tr><tr><td><code>menstruationDayCount</code></td><td>int</td><td>Defines the number of days for the menstruation phase.</td><td>5</td></tr><tr><td><code>follicularDayCount</code></td><td>int</td><td>Defines the number of days for the follicular phase.</td><td>6</td></tr><tr><td><code>ovulationDayCount</code></td><td>int</td><td>int Defines the number of days for the ovulation phase.</td><td>5</td></tr><tr><td><code>imgSize</code></td><td>double</td><td>Specifies the size of the image in the central circle.</td><td>30</td></tr><tr><td><code>imageAssets</code></td><td>String</td><td>Sets the image to be displayed inside the central circle.</td><td>null</td></tr><tr><td><code>centralCircleBackgroundColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td><p>Sets the background color of the central circle.</p><p><br><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleImage</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>Colors.transparent</td></tr><tr><td><code>centralCircleSize</code></td><td>double</td><td><p>Specifies the size of the central circle.</p><p><br><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleImage</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>25</td></tr><tr><td><code>dayFontSize</code></td><td>double</td><td>Specifies the font size of the day numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.).</td><td>12</td></tr><tr><td><code>dayTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the font color of dat text.</td><td>Colors.black</td></tr><tr><td><code>dayTitleFontSize</code></td><td>double</td><td>Specifies the font size of the 'Day' title text.</td><td>12</td></tr><tr><td><code>isShowDayTitle</code></td><td>bool</td><td>Controls the visibility of the 'Day' title. Set to false to hide it.</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td><code>menstruationBackgroundColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Sets the background color for the menstruation phase.</td><td>Color(0x26ff584f)</td></tr><tr><td><code>menstruationColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Sets the color for the menstruation phase.</td><td>Color(0xFFff584f)</td></tr><tr><td><code>menstruationDayTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the text color of the menstruation day numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.).</td><td>Colors.black</td></tr><tr><td><code>menstruationName</code></td><td>String</td><td>Specifies the menstruation phase name.</td><td>Menstruation</td></tr><tr><td><code>menstruationTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the text color of menstruation phase name.</td><td>Color(0xFFff584f)</td></tr><tr><td><code>follicularBackgroundColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Sets the background color for the follicular phase.</td><td>Color(0x26eec9b7)</td></tr><tr><td><code>follicularPhaseColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Sets the color for the follicular phase.</td><td>Color(0xFFeec9b7)</td></tr><tr><td><code>follicularPhaseDayTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the text color of the follicular day numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.).</td><td>Colors.black</td></tr><tr><td><code>follicularPhaseName</code></td><td>String</td><td>Specifies the follicular phase name.</td><td>Follicular phase</td></tr><tr><td><code>follicularTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the text color of follicular phase name.</td><td>Color(0xFFeec9b7)</td></tr><tr><td><code>ovulationBackgroundColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Sets the background color for the ovulation phase.</td><td>Color(0x2622bc79)</td></tr><tr><td><code>ovulationColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Sets the color for the ovulation phase.</td><td>Color(0xFF22bc79)</td></tr><tr><td><code>ovulationDayTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the text color of the ovulation day numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.).</td><td>Colors.black</td></tr><tr><td><code>ovulationName</code></td><td>String</td><td>Specifies the ovulation phase name.</td><td>Ovulation</td></tr><tr><td><code>ovulationTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the text color of ovulation phase name.</td><td>Color(0xFF22bc79)</td></tr><tr><td><code>lutealPhaseBackgroundColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Sets the background color for the luteal phase.</td><td>Color(0x26abcdf0)</td></tr><tr><td><code>lutealPhaseColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Sets the color for the luteal phase.</td><td>Color(0xFFabcdf0)</td></tr><tr><td><code>lutealPhaseDayTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the text color of the luteal day numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.).</td><td>Colors.black</td></tr><tr><td><code>lutealPhaseName</code></td><td>String</td><td>Specifies the follicular phase name.</td><td>Luteal phase</td></tr><tr><td><code>lutealPhaseTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the text color of follicular phase name.</td><td>Color(0xFFabcdf0)</td></tr><tr><td><code>phasesTextSize</code></td><td>double</td><td>Specifies font size of the phase days ('Menstruation', 'Follicular phase', 'Ovulation' and 'Luteal phase').</td><td>8</td></tr><tr><td><code>selectedDay</code></td><td>int</td><td>Specifies the current day of <strong>'Menstrual Cycle Phase'</strong>.</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td><code>selectedDayBackgroundColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the circle background of selected day.</td><td>white</td></tr><tr><td><code>selectedDayCircleBorderColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the circle border color of selected day. Default is based on selected day's background color.</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td><code>selectedDayCircleSize</code></td><td>double</td><td>Specifies the circle size of selected day.</td><td>18</td></tr><tr><td><code>selectedDayTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td>Specifies the text color of the selected day.</td><td>Colors.black</td></tr><tr><td><code>selectedDayFontSize</code></td><td>double</td><td>Specifies the font size of the selected day.</td><td>12</td></tr><tr><td><code>dayFontWeight</code></td><td>FontWeight</td><td>Specifies the font weight of the day.</td><td>FontWeight.normal</td></tr><tr><td><code>circleDaySize</code></td><td>double</td><td><p>Specifies the size of the circle. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when Theme is MenstrualCycleTheme.circle</p></td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td><code>theme</code></td><td>MenstrualCycleTheme</td><td>Specifies the theme of your menstrual widget .</td><td>MenstrualCycleTheme.basic</td></tr><tr><td><code>phaseTextBoundaries</code></td><td>PhaseTextBoundaries</td><td>Specifies where you have to show phase text ('Menstruation', 'Follicular phase', 'Ovulation' and 'Luteal phase'). Either is <strong>Inside circle (PhaseTextBoundaries.inside)</strong>, <strong>Outside circle (PhaseTextBoundaries.outside)</strong> or <strong>Both (PhaseTextBoundaries.both)</strong>.</td><td>PhaseTextBoundaries.inside</td></tr><tr><td><code>arcStrokeWidth</code></td><td>double</td><td><p>Specifies the size of the arc Stroke. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when Theme is MenstrualCycleTheme.circle</p></td><td>30</td></tr><tr><td><code>outsidePhasesTextSize</code></td><td>double</td><td>Specifies the font size of outside phase text.</td><td>12</td></tr><tr><td><code>outsideTextCharSpace</code></td><td>int</td><td>Specifies the text character spaces of outside phase text.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td><code>outsideTextSpaceFromArc</code></td><td>int</td><td>Specifies the space between Arc circle and phase text.</td><td>30</td></tr><tr><td><code>centralCircleBorderColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td><p>Specifies the color of the central circle border. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleImage</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>Colors.transparent</td></tr><tr><td><code>centralCircleBorderSize</code></td><td>int</td><td><p>Specifies the size of the central circle border. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleImage</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td><code>isRemoveBackgroundPhaseColor</code></td><td>bool</td><td>Set as <strong>true</strong> if you want want background color of phase.</td><td>false</td></tr><tr><td><code>viewType</code></td><td>MenstrualCycleViewType</td><td>Specifies view of your <strong>Menstrual Cycle Widget</strong>.</td><td>MenstrualCycleViewType.none</td></tr><tr><td><code>title</code></td><td>String</td><td><p>Specifies the title text of your central view. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.text</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td><code>titleTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td><p>Specifies the title text color of your central view. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.text</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>Colors.black</td></tr><tr><td><code>titleTextSize</code></td><td>double</td><td><p>Specifies the title text size of your central view. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.text</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>20</td></tr><tr><td><code>titleFontWeight</code></td><td>FontWeight</td><td><p>Specifies the title font weight of your central view. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.text</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>FontWeight.bold</td></tr><tr><td><code>message</code></td><td>String</td><td><p>Specifies the message above title text of your central view. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.text</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><code>message2</code></td><td>String</td><td><p>Specifies the message below title text of your central view. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.text</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><code>messageTextColor</code></td><td>Color</td><td><p>Specifies the message text color of your central view. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.text</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>Colors.black45</td></tr><tr><td><code>messageTextSize</code></td><td>double</td><td><p>Specifies the message text size of your central view. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.text</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>10</td></tr><tr><td><code>messageFontWeight</code></td><td>FontWeight</td><td><p>Specifies the message font weight of your central view. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.text</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>FontWeight.normal</td></tr><tr><td><code>spaceBtnTitleMessage</code></td><td>int</td><td><p>Specifies the space between title &#x26; message of your central view. </p><p></p><p><strong>NOTE</strong>: Only when viewType is <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.text</strong> or <strong>MenstrualCycleViewType.circleText</strong></p></td><td>5</td></tr></tbody></table>
